README.md, before:

# Tasklist-java-maven-hibernate

## Hibernate
OneToOne  
@PrimaryKeyJoinColumn
<https://www.javaguides.net/2019/12/hibernate-primarykeyjoincolumn.html>
<https://www.journaldev.com/3481/hibernate-session-merge-vs-update-save-saveorupdate-persist-example>

<http://zetcode.com/hibernate/onetoone/>

Repository  
<http://zetcode.com/springboot/repository/> (usa jpa :( )

### Relaciones

<https://www.adictosaltrabajo.com/2020/04/02/hibernate-onetoone-onetomany-manytoone-y-manytomany/>

### Validacion/Creacio esquema database
```xml
    <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="update" />
```
     
create - creates the schema, destroying previous data
update - update existing schema
validate - validate the schema, makes no changes to the database
create-drop -  create the schema with destroying the data previously present(if there). It also drop the database schema when the SessionFactory is closed.


## MySQL

```mysql
show tables;
show tables status;
show create table tareas;
show columns from tareas;

```

## Notes
```code
JPA o Java Persistence API
EntityManager será la clase que nos permitirá hacer transacciones con la base de datos, es decir, guardar entidades en base de datos, modificarlas, consultarlas, etc
persistence.xml se encarga de conectarnos a la base de datos y define el conjunto de entidades que vamos a gestionar

manager.find(Estados.class, id); //busca el objeto por el primary key
```

## Foregin Keys
<https://thorben-janssen.com/hibernate-tips-same-primary-key-one-to-one-association/>

## Generate project with Maven

```code
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DgroupId=com.bootcamp.seatcode.mike -DartifactId=tasklist-java-maven-hibernate -DarchetypeVersion=1.4 -Dversion=1.0.0
```

|       Paramater      |    Description | Reference |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| archetypeVersion=1.4 | last version of maven-archetype-quickstart | <https://maven.apache.org/archetypes/maven-archetype-quickstart/> |
| version=1.0.0        | Project version | |

## Edit pom.xml and add the following dependencies

JPA Hibernate dependencies:
```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.hibernate/hibernate-entitymanager -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-entitymanager</artifactId>
            <version>5.4.20.Final</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <!-- API para el JPA -->
            <groupId>org.hibernate.javax.persistence</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-jpa-2.1-api</artifactId>
            <version>1.0.0.Final</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-core</artifactId>
            <version>5.2.12.Final</version>
            <scope>runtime</scope>
        </dependency>

        <!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java -->
        <dependency>
          <groupId>mysql</groupId>
          <artifactId>mysql-connector-java</artifactId>
          <version>8.0.21</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
            <version>2.3.1</version>
        </dependency>
```


## Other Dependencies

Hibernate dependency:

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.hibernate/hibernate-core -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
    <artifactId>hibernate-core</artifactId>
    <version>5.4.20.Final</version>
</dependency>

```

MySQl dependency:

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>mysql</groupId>
    <artifactId>mysql-connector-java</artifactId>
    <version>8.0.21</version>
</dependency>
```

Lanterna dependency for GUI

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.googlecode.lanterna/lanterna -->
<!-- https://github.com/mabe02/lanterna -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.googlecode.lanterna</groupId>
    <artifactId>lanterna</artifactId>
    <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

Updated README.md with a few screenshots of the program

README.md, after:

# Tasklist-java-maven-hibernate

The objective of the assignment is made a cli program with hibernate.

## Sreenshots of Tasklist

<img alt="Screenshot 1" src="screenshots/Screenshot_1.png" height="50%" width="50%"/>
<img alt="Screenshot 2" src="screenshots/Screenshot_2.png" height="50%" width="50%"/>
<img alt="Screenshot 3" src="screenshots/Screenshot_3.png" height="50%" width="50%"/>
<img alt="Screenshot 4" src="screenshots/Screenshot_4.png" height="50%" width="50%"/>
<img alt="Screenshot 5" src="screenshots/Screenshot_5.png" height="50%" width="50%"/>

### Notes and other stuff take it during the assingment

#### Hibernate

OneToOne  
@PrimaryKeyJoinColumn
<https://www.javaguides.net/2019/12/hibernate-primarykeyjoincolumn.html>
<https://www.journaldev.com/3481/hibernate-session-merge-vs-update-save-saveorupdate-persist-example>

<http://zetcode.com/hibernate/onetoone/>

Repository  
<http://zetcode.com/springboot/repository/> (usa jpa :( )

#### Relaciones

<https://www.adictosaltrabajo.com/2020/04/02/hibernate-onetoone-onetomany-manytoone-y-manytomany/>

#### Validacion/Creacio esquema database

```xml
    <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="update" />
```

create - creates the schema, destroying previous data
update - update existing schema
validate - validate the schema, makes no changes to the database
create-drop -  create the schema with destroying the data previously present(if there). It also drop the database schema when the SessionFactory is closed.


#### MySQL

```mysql
show tables;
show tables status;
show create table tareas;
show columns from tareas;

```

#### Notes

```code
JPA o Java Persistence API
EntityManager será la clase que nos permitirá hacer transacciones con la base de datos, es decir, guardar entidades en base de datos, modificarlas, consultarlas, etc
persistence.xml se encarga de conectarnos a la base de datos y define el conjunto de entidades que vamos a gestionar

manager.find(Estados.class, id); //busca el objeto por el primary key
```

#### Foregin Keys

<https://thorben-janssen.com/hibernate-tips-same-primary-key-one-to-one-association/>

#### Generate project with Maven

```code
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DgroupId=com.bootcamp.seatcode.mike -DartifactId=tasklist-java-maven-hibernate -DarchetypeVersion=1.4 -Dversion=1.0.0
```

|       Paramater      |    Description | Reference |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| archetypeVersion=1.4 | last version of maven-archetype-quickstart | <https://maven.apache.org/archetypes/maven-archetype-quickstart/> |
| version=1.0.0        | Project version | |

#### Edit pom.xml and add the following dependencies

JPA Hibernate dependencies:

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.hibernate/hibernate-entitymanager -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-entitymanager</artifactId>
            <version>5.4.20.Final</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <!-- API para el JPA -->
            <groupId>org.hibernate.javax.persistence</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-jpa-2.1-api</artifactId>
            <version>1.0.0.Final</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
            <artifactId>hibernate-core</artifactId>
            <version>5.2.12.Final</version>
            <scope>runtime</scope>
        </dependency>

        <!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java -->
        <dependency>
          <groupId>mysql</groupId>
          <artifactId>mysql-connector-java</artifactId>
          <version>8.0.21</version>
        </dependency>

        <dependency>
            <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
            <version>2.3.1</version>
        </dependency>
```

#### Other Dependencies

Hibernate dependency:

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.hibernate/hibernate-core -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.hibernate</groupId>
    <artifactId>hibernate-core</artifactId>
    <version>5.4.20.Final</version>
</dependency>

```

MySQl dependency:

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/mysql/mysql-connector-java -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>mysql</groupId>
    <artifactId>mysql-connector-java</artifactId>
    <version>8.0.21</version>
</dependency>
```

Lanterna dependency for GUI

```html
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.googlecode.lanterna/lanterna -->
<!-- https://github.com/mabe02/lanterna -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.googlecode.lanterna</groupId>
    <artifactId>lanterna</artifactId>
    <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
```
